- [Instructor] JAX-RS 2.0 introduced the capability
to make a resource method asynchronous,
which allows developers to better utilize
expensive resources like threads on a server.
A typical resource method will hold a thread
until a response is returned to the client.
Using async, we can free up threads to perform processing
while we wait for long running operations.
Let's see this in action by adding an async resource method
to our inventory items resource.
To do that, we're going to create a copy
of the find by catalog ID method
on the class and once we do that,
we'll need to change the name of the method.
I'm just going to call it async find by catalog ID,
and then async methods do not return anything,
so we're going to change the type to void
and then we'll go ahead and remove the body of the method.
The next thing I'm going to do
is remove the JAX-RS mapping annotations
from the previous method.
In order to indicate to JAX-RS
that we would like a method to be asynchronous,
we need to add the suspended annotation
within the method's signature
where we specify the method parameters
and then we add a new object of type async response
to the list of method parameters.
So we'll go ahead and add that object
and then we can start building out our asynchronous method.
So the first thing we're going to do within this method
is create a thread and we'll start that thread immediately.
And then within the thread,
we'll need to create a method named run
that returns a void return type
and then inside of that method,
I'm just going to sleep the thread
for about 5,000 milliseconds,
and this is just to indicate a long running call.
Now, once we've slept for 5,000 milliseconds,
the next thing that we're going to do
within the body of this method,
is called the AR resume method.
So this indicates to JAX-RS
that our asynchronous resource method
has a response to return.
In this case, that's some point in the future,
5,000 milliseconds.
Now, we're going to leverage our existing
find by catalog ID method.
So we can just call that
and it's going to return an inventory item.
So that's the implementation for our async resource method.
Now let's talk a little bit about how we call it.
So to help us out with that,
I've added a method onto our inventory service interface
and it's the async get quantity method
and that method is going to allow us
to retrieve a future of type inventory item.
So with a future, we're going to make the call
and then at some point later,
we will actually get the response.
We're not sure when.
Let's take a look at our remote inventory service
and here we're going to build out the call
to the asynchronous resource method on the API.
So now we're looking at this from the client perspective,
so somebody calling the API,
and the JAX-RS client also allows us
to make calls asynchronously.
So what I'm going to do to provide that implementation
is just copy the code within our get quantity method
because it's going to be very similar
and then we'll put that code into the body
of our new async get quantity method.
Okay, so in order to make a call asynchronous,
we just add the async method
between the request and the get methods.
And we're no longer going to receive
an inventory item immediately
because the previous call was blocking.
We were going to sit there, hold on to the thread
until we got a response back from the API.
We're no longer going to do that.
We're going to get a future back
that's going to say at some point later,
you will get the response, it's just not going to be now.
So we're going to go ahead and remove our return statement
and then we're going to return
the result of our asynchronous method call
from our JAX-RS client.
Okay, so that's going to change things
in the backing bean that calls this method.
So let's head over there
and here we have the catalog item detail bean.
You'll remember, this is the bean
that is used to fetch the quantity
for a particular item and it displays it
on the user interface.
Now within this method,
we need to switch things up a little.
So we're going to get our future
that has a generic type of inventory item
and we'll just call that future,
and then here we'll invoke
the asynchronous version of our method
and we'll pass in the item ID.
And then just so you can grasp the concept,
what I'm going to do here
is add a little bit of logging to our console,
so we'll just say we're doing other work
because we're no longer going to block here.
We're going to make the call and then continue execution
within our current thread.
Now, eventually we will need to block
so here where we assign the quantity,
we're going to call the get method on the future
that will cause the execution of the thread to block
and we can get our inventory item
and then I'm going to go ahead
and retrieve the quantity from that.
Now, the future can throw an exception
so we need to add that to the throws clause
on our method's signature,
and then I'll just add a little bit more debugging here
so that we can see that we completed the request.
Okay, let's go ahead, save that
and now we're going to start our application
and then I'm going to go ahead and open up a web browser.
So there we see the application starting.
I'll go ahead and expand our console and clear it
and then we're going to navigate to the application
and we're just going to enter an item
and then we'll submit the item so it's created.
There we see the calls to the REST API
to create the resource
and now when we navigate to the item's page,
you'll notice we're waiting about 5,000 seconds
and then we transition over to the page
and we get our quantity.
Now let's take a look at
what was happening in the logs here.
So you can see we made the request to the API
and then the thread continued.
We were doing other work
and then eventually the thread came back
and completed the request.
So this is an example of using the asynchronous features
of JAX-RS including building asynchronous resource methods
and also building out calls
with the client in an async nature.